*how exactly do you make money doing that?*
yeahso this is a question i get asked quite a lot
so i've said often on the channel that i mademy
money by betting the economy will be shit forever
people want to know exactly what that
means so i was an interest rates trader
when you hear interest rates trading youshould
always think that that's the tradingof loans
essentially the borrowing and lending ofmoney
you want to borrow money at a low interestrate
and lend money at a high interestrate
so i started working in 2008 in 2008
central bank interest rates went to
effectively zero all over the world
which meant that you could borrow money
effectively for free almost for no interest
but sometimes people will want to borrow money
in a year's time say for example you're a big
corporation and you've got a loan and you know
the loan is going to expire next year in june
okay so when next year june comes you're going
to need to get a new loan just like you might
have a mortgage that expires okay so you've got
a loan it expires in a year and you come to me
trader at citibank and you say okay i want
to borrow money starting from next year okay
well at the moment we know that the interest
rate is zero but we don't know what the ratesare
going to be in a year's time right? but for thewhole
sort of 12-year period between 2008 and 2020
economists and traders generally thought
that the economy is about to recover
which means that interest rates are about
to go up so even though rates are zero now
in a year's time they're probably going to be
like two percent, one and a half to two percent
so if you were to call up a bank and say i want to
borrow money starting from next year they're gonna
say okay well that's gonna cost you two percent
interest right but i came to the conclusion the
economy would never recover which means that
rates would stay zero basically permanently
so i could call these banks up and say okay
what's your interest rate for next year
they'll say two percent i will say i will lend
you money at two percent next year and then i'll
just wait and then when next year comes as time
goes by time goes by it slowly becomes apparent
to people that the economy is not recovering
and that interest rates are going to stay zero
so as we approach next year everybody starts to
realize oh actually rate's going to stay zero
but that guy has already agreed to
borrow money from me at two percent right
so as we come close to the time and the rates
are still zero i can then borrow at zero percent
lend that by two percent and make the
money in between and if you do that with
a billion dollars then you make two percent of
a billion dollars which is 20 million dollars
so it's as simple as that basically like
for it's amazing for 12 years after 2008
everybody thought well not everybody but the vast
majority of economists traders thought that rates
would go up the following year every single year
which meant that you could always lend money at
you know one and a half two percent
even though rates were currently zero
so you could just keep lending money at one and
a half two percent and then just wait a year buy
it back at zero and i did that trade you know
idid that trade in 2011, i did the trade in 2012.
and then after i quit banking i did that trade
myself every year you know i made money every
year um and i know the people watching are going
to be like fantastic we can do that trade well
unfortunately guys watching that trade is not
profitable anymore because now for better or
worse my basic belief that rates will stay zero
forever is now basically the norm and everybody
you know the the consensus now is that rates
never go up and i think it's worth seeing and
thinking about what that means because this is
kind of basically like the global economist in
the market saying actually we agree with gary
the economy is [ __ ] forever and the economy
does never get better it's like basically accepted
now in the markets you know that's pretty amazing
that that's happened um and not only is it
terrible but it means i can't make money
on that trade anymore which is even worse
than the demise of the global economy um
but obviously i've still got other trades on
i think you know i don't want to talk too much
about the trades i've got on now because i don't
want to encourage people into the world of online
trading which is very very dangerous which
we'll talk more about in future videos
um but yeah that's a question that i get
a lot what was the trade that you did
um and that was it that's how i bet on and made
millions of pounds by predicting the disaster of
the global economy and one thing i'd like to add
is it's a pretty mad world that we live in where
you can be paid millions of pounds to predict the
collapse of the global economy and the next year
you can get paid a million pounds again and at
no point does anyone ever think to say maybe we
should do something about this maybe you should
talk to the prime minister you know maybe you
should go talk to economist at universities
doyou see what i'm saying? i do and it's not the
*i mean i'm aware of the story and originally
it's like well you realize no one else did*
type of everyone's just a bit ignorant but you're
saying that actually there is the consensus now*
*that that is the situation* yeah and i think thisis
*you know that's alarming* this is why i wanted
to make the video which we made before to explain
what is going on in the economy because right now
the media has no clue what is happening and is
massively misrepresenting and mis portraying
whats happening whereas financial markets
understandthat this situation is absolutely terrible
and things are going to be [ __ ] for
a long time if we don't do anything
financial markets are accepting this but the media
is not accepting this so i think people need to
know because the problem is people in financial
markets know but they're all rich they are not
going to help you these guys are not going to
save it you know what i mean so the way things
are going right now rich people are going to do
fantastically well ordinary people are going to be
massively [ __ ] and ordinary people are not
being told so that's why we have to do this we
have to tell ordinary people what's happening and
ordinary people unfortunately need to be willing
to come together to push back against it because
no one is going to save us you know what i mean
rupert murdoch is not going to save these guys
you know what i mean boris johnson and kirsten
neither of them are going to save these guys
you know what i mean and the financial markets
are not going to save them and andrew bailey the
bank of england is not going to save them nobody
nobody with a voice in economics comes from a poor
background these guys don't give a [ __ ] okay
they are not going to save ordinary people and
ordinary people are being convinced by youtube
that the only thing they can do to fight back is
trade monkeys on the internet you know what i mean
or trade bitcoin you know what i mean listen if
there is no political response the future is going
to be a [ __ ] disaster and i don't take any joy
from saying that right this is why we are up here
making these videos because i don't want that to
happen okay this is why i'm not in a skyscraper
making two million pounds a year because i don't
want that to happen i don't want the future to be
[ __ ] but it will only not be [ __ ] if ordinary
people come together to do something about it and
i my worry is that with the last two and a half
years societal trust and societal cooperation has
broken down to a degree and if ordinary people are
not willing and able to come together we will lose
so we need to create a space where people come
together and support each other to fight back and
that means coming together across you know across
class boundaries across racial boundaries across
you know every kind of boundary you know what i
mean we need men we need women we need people from
every community to come together because everyone
who is from a poor and ordinary background
is going to be affected if we don't do
anything and it's going to require to a degree
people willing to say look i'm not going tospend
my time trying to do online tradingon the internet
i'm going to devote a bit of time tobuilding
some community to to come back against it
because it's the only way it's the only way you
know it's only if we can only change it for the
positive if people come together so um that is
why you have to share this video i mean that's
all we can do you know we're trying to build
something get people together to um to make
things better to understand what's happening
and um i'll keep doing it you'll keep doing it
keep making them *um just a little follow on from
that it's interesting because you say that it's*
*now the consensus that actually you're right and
interest rates will (i'm sure not everyone's like*
*particularly gary's right) but that interest
rate* that's what they all say *in relation to*
this cost of living crisis yeah they have actually
marginally put the interest rates up yeah i mean
yeah exactly and i'm at this point i'm not betting
on the street staying low i do think interest
rates probably will stay quite low um i'm not
absolutely 100 certain i'm not as confident as i
have been at times in the past um i'm not betting
on that at the moment uh interest rates could go a
bit higher my expectation *if they're going up does
that mean the economy's not [ __ ] forever then?*
not really because what is important this is
slightly technical it's not just the interest rate
but the real interest rate it's the difference
between the interest rate and inflation because
you know there are a lot of very countries with
not great economies you know for example india
does not have a particularly strong economy on
a global scale which has high interest rates
but also high inflation which means effectively
your money's not growing right because you know
if you make seven percent a year on your money but
inflation is seven percent a year your actual real
growth in your wealth is effectively zero
um and i think it's it's not impossible
i don't think it's the most likely outcome
that the uk is sort of moving into this more
situation which is common for poorer countries
where inflation is permanently higher and then
interest rates are permanently higher but you know
what matters is can you actually grow your wealth
and you know if interest rates are you know at the
moment interest rates have gone up to i think 0.5%
but inflation is like 7% so you know interest rates
have gone up but in in real terms you've never
been losing more on your money year by year right
than you are at the moment in terms of purchasing
the power of your money so um interest rates will
definitely go up further than they are now there
will be further interest rate hikes i suspect that
in the long run they end up coming back down but
it's not impossible that they stay a bit higher
but only with higher levels of inflation in my
opinion and you know this is something which i'm
you know legit professional in and have but i'm
not betting on introduction right now um because
i don't think that there i don't think that's
something that's particularly misunderstood
by markets at the moment you know
um i do think that the future looks
very bleak though if we don't if we
don't do anything and i think the only way to
change that is is political action and i don't
mean that in terms of vote for this party
vote for that by i mean that in terms of
push for action on wealth distribution
wealth inequality taxation of the rich
so it's intentionally designed national
insurance so that very rich people
pay a very low percent there is one other thing
they can do with that mass amount of income
they can buy your mom's house